---
title: Habit forming
pubDate: 2026-04-21
tags: [blog]
description: Breaking the habit and other habit based puns.
draft: true
---

# The ones we want to keep

Habits are something I've been putting a lot of thought into recently. The work habits we form. The comfortable groves we get in, the things we choose or choose not to do throughout the day.

One of the habits I've been trying to form is to make progress on some project every day. Some days, lately, it's been working on this site, and writing a blog post while I'm waiting for the CI Pipeline to pickup the changes of projects I'm working on. Tinkering with bardbase, figuring out automation things.

One of the habits I seem to have gotten into is tinkering to the point of breakage. One of the pieces of software I run, `zwave-js-ui`, to connect to zwave devices like locks, dimmers, and smart plugs, it keeps losing it's configuration. It's not enough that the thing loses it's configuration, when it loses it's configuration it loses all of it's security keys.

So when it loses configurations, I have to setup every single device again. It's annoying. It's a problem to solve, but it feels like a metaphor for how I seem to approach problems:

- I set up `zwave` to solve the problem of smart locks
- I ran into an issue where my smart lock was too far from my zwave antenna
- I came up with a plan to get a couple of more zwave devices(smart plugs) to help bridge the gap
  - zwave is a mesh network
- So I got some smart plugs, spread them around my house, and use them primarily for energy monitoring or things like my media center, or home servers.
- That lead to more complexity with the zwave setup, leading to wanting to migrate it from docker to a proxmox LXC for more control over resources
- that led to a misconfiguration of the backups due to the differences between environments and technologies
- so I started writing scripts to fix the problem to fix the backups, and restores.

My habits seem to be
